this is the iPhone 16 the iPhone 16 plus
the 16 Pro and the 16 Pro Max so every
new iPhone as well as bucket load of new
accessories and this is where we find
out if these things are actually good or
not so let's unbox the iPhone 16 and 16
plus first and notice Apple did say this
is now an even smaller package compared
to last year's phones I have to be
honest I can barely tell the difference
it's about 6% smaller in reality but it
does look like they have rearranged the
entire inside to accommodate this shrink
so now you get the phone there's a USBC
cable combined with a Sim ejector and it
looks like no Apple stickers this time
around and here's our iPhone 16 these
are also apparently the first iPhones to
have 100% wood fiber based packaging
which is good although last year's
phones had 99% so let's not get too
excited and this is iPhone 16 plus and
I'm actually kind of happy about these
colors this is the closest we've been in
a long time to well just actually proper
blue and pink very expensive gender
reveal anyone so having actually used
the phones I would genuinely say the
audio mixing feature is unexpectedly
crazy cool so you guys start having a
conversation now and while they're
talking behind the phone I'm talking to
you guys standing in front of the phone
so this is kind of like the equivalent
of me being on a movie set and I'm the
cameraman and they're the actors that
I'm filming hey let's see what that clip
looked like so open it up head into the
edit and then click audio mix so there's
four options here we'll start with a
default way that the iPhone sounds and
while they're talking behind the phone
I'm talking
FR bit of a mess right but then you
click in frame flow so you want flow
it's like really fine and eggs you want
really rich my audio basically
disappears it's it's like a magic trick
there is more to this feature but I'll
get to it when we talk about the pro
phones okay so what about gaming because
the iPhone 16s have jumped forward two
generations in terms of their chip this
time around this should be one of the
biggest changes and now also means that
these phones have access to that same
library of console games that only the
pros could play last year so why don't
we see how they run man the idea of
playing like proper console Assassin's
Creed on my phone is basically a
childhood dream okay really impressive
draw distances meaning that like it's
kind of crazy that I can see stuff
happening on the other side of this
massive City the game is running smooth
it's a very consistent 30 frames per
second I would say you can tell that a
lot of settings have had to be very far
dialed back from the console versions to
the point where it does kind of still
look like a mobile game but then the
upside is that it doesn't feel like a
mobile game in terms of the scope of it
it's massive I'm impressed I'm not blown
away but I'm impressed now two of the
most obvious changes on the iPhone 16
are both camera related one is the new
layout of the cameras which unlocks this
new option in the camera app called
spatial video and I have played around
with it it's lower quality than normal
video it only shoots in 1080p but if you
do somehow happen to have a Vision Pro
lying around it is surprisingly
transportative it really does take you
there but then again you know this was
the first time I used my Vision Pro
since my review 6 months ago this isn't
a useful enough gadget for this feature
that only works on this gadget to mean
anything but that might change in the
future the second thing is this new
camera control that you get on the side
this is the thing that's in all the Tik
toks this is what people are talking
about so a heavy press on it takes a
photo a light press activates the Zoom
slider so you have full control over
Zoom by swiping along it and then a
double Light press opens up a menu which
if you don't want the swipe gesture to
control Zoom allows you to select
something else that it can control and
when I first went hands on with it my
very first hot take was why like who
asked for this so now that I've had some
proper time to get to know it how my
opinion changed well it has allowed me
to appreciate the attention to detail
that's gone into it I like the fact that
it's flush with the body of the phone so
it's not yet another protrusion that
makes a thing uncomfortable to hold I
like that you have a surprising amount
of control over how the control works
with settings like How firm you need to
press to activate the thing I like the
little bit of haptic feedback you get
every time you hit a key magnification
number as you're zooming in it is quite
cool that the official Apple cases cover
and protect the camera control while
keeping the swiping gestures completely
usable but no my opinion has not changed
I think this is dumb you have to lower
your grip to reach it you have to arch
your thumb in a way that genuinely
causes me hand strain you got to hold
your phone tighter than usual cuz you're
now supporting it less and after all
that you're more likely to get last
minute camera Shake because you're heavy
pressing a button as opposed to lightly
tapping your screen and if that wasn't
enough it also feels like in trying to
make this camera control work for both
the portrait orientations and the
landscape orientations they've just made
it not good with either because for
portrait it needs to be higher up so
you're not going like this and for
landscape it needs to be lower like here
so you can actually reach it without
using some weird unconventional hand
claw separately though I will say I
appreciate how you can now pause a video
recording so you can have multiple
separate Clips in one video as opposed
to having multiple videos and also how
you don't need to stop whatever music is
playing on your phone when you start
recording these are both overdue but
good improvements for creators in iOS 18
but what about the photo quality because
while the main camera hasn't changed on
this 16 you know that new a18 chip that
the phone has does contain a brand new
image signal processor which every year
is becoming a bigger factor for your
photos so I thought this would be a fun
thing to do this is the iPhone 16 this
is last year's iPhone 15 and then this
is an iPhone 12 which I imagine is
closer to what most of you might be
upgrading from okay I'm a jump in the
shot and finger
guns why did I say that right yeah
there's basically zero difference
between the 15 and the 16 you can
definitely see substantial upgrades from
the 12 in terms of detail texture color
that's not really something to brag
about that's expected and between the 15
and 16 I can't see anything the 16
though can get way closer to things to
take macro photos now that the ultrawide
camera has autofocus and there is some
improvement to the colors and the
overall smoothness when it comes to
night photos I guess because there's
more processing in low light shots you
notice the difference in the processor
more oh yeah and the other thing because
the chip is faster this time around
these new iPhones can do way better
quality quick take video you know when
you're in photo mode but you just need
to capture something right now you can
hold down on the camera button and
iPhones used to take a squarish looking
lower resolution video that's what most
phones do because when you're in photo
mode your phone is ready and geared to
taking photos not video but the new
phones can just go straight into full
resolution 4K recording but let's be
very clear if what you're after is big
camera improvements this ain't it that's
coming on the 16 Pros which I'm getting
to the only other camera feature that
Apple did spend a fair bit of time
talking about is photographic Styles and
how this year they're splitting these
Styles into mood which are more the
Striking filter-like settings and then
undertones which are more about how you
want to look in your photos
traditionally iPhones have always tended
to make skin tones a little warmer than
they are in reality but the idea of
these undertones is to give that control
back to you to decide that said I've
tested all of them and all it did was
make me come to the conclusion that I
prefer the standard one that iPhones
have been using by default since the
beginning okay only other thing that I
wanted to mention before we go to the
pro iPhones is at the launch event Apple
said that the glass on the front of
these phones is 50% stronger than last
gen and that meant basically ially
nothing to anyone because they didn't
explain it but I think I've managed to
find out how now so the problem with
glass on its own is that the atoms
within glass have a pretty weak
structure their Arrangement is
disordered which means that if you apply
pressure to Glass the atoms can't
smoothly Glide over each other so the
material doesn't Flex it shatters and so
a few years ago Apple realized that by
infusing that glass with tiny clear
pieces of ceramic which has a much more
organized 3D Matrix of atoms they could
create more structure within the display
and therefore more ability to withstand
pressure and so the new thing this time
round is they've improved the
organization of ceramic within the glass
which increases the compressive stress
capacity of the display or in other
words this might not be significantly
less likely to crack but if it does
crack that crack is a lot less likely to
spread out across the entire screen so
there you go I had to make sure I got to
the bottom of that one and that's
basically it for all the new stuff that
the iPhone 16s do except for the action
button which the pro phones had last
year a better battery and apple
intelligence but I'm getting to that
okay time for the top end phones iPhone
16 Pro and 16 Pro Max they used to do
this cool thing where the base phones
had white packaging and the pros came
with black but I guess that's officially
buried now maybe the colored dies were
adding to the pollution so this is the
16 Pro which we have in the same natural
titanium color as last year's phones
came in and then for the pro Max this is
Desert titanium which is the only new
color this year I feel like apple is
really spacing out the Innovation
here and honestly to me this feels
disappointingly stale for the one
Flagship new color but then while we're
here this is what the new cases look
like so it seems like fine woven cases
are officially dead that's probably for
the best but it's quite funny how much
of a disaster that was so we're back to
Silicon now and this is I mean it's good
quality but it is expensive for a case
there's the new clear case which I would
personally never go for cuz they just
get sticky and fingerprint and these are
the new airpods 4 with noise
cancellation which come with a set of
papers for some reason and then it's
just the earphones in their
case and I have tested these by the way
so quick Mini review good product they
don't feel too big in your ears so you
completely forget they're there they're
super light but then at the same time
they give like zero indication that they
could fall out when you shake your head
around the noise cancellation is the
best I have ever heard for earphones
with no ear tips and there's practically
zero leakage either even for people
sitting right next to you the sound
quality isn't as good as the a pros and
I'd say that even though the noise
cancellation does make them sound quite
a bit better than the previous standard
airpods you wouldn't have to look hard
to find better sounding earphones for
$180 but they sound a lot better than
the previous gen standard airpods mostly
thanks to the noise isolation so I'm
still going to stick to the pros but I'm
glad to see that there is now a decent
Apple made option for people who don't
like the feeling of pressure that you
can get from ear tips okay and then
finally for this unboxing this is the
upgraded mag safe charger it is cool how
every single product down to the
accessories has the same peeling
experience and that it always seems to
work and then the kind of chunky 30 WT
power brick that lets you get the best
speed out of that Max zave charger more
on these in a bit so first thing I want
to look at with these phones is audio
you know how we looked at the audio
mixing feature on the bass iPhones well
while the feature does completely work
both on the non-pro and the pros it's
even better on the pros thanks to four
supposedly Studio grade microphones and
so I thought these phones would be a
really cool way to show you this other
type of audio mix called Studio that
makes the microphones sound like they're
really close to your mouth check this
out so this is me talking to you using
normal phone audio and it sounds phone
likee you hear a little bit of
everything this is what it sounds like
when we switch over to studio and as
someone who spends a lot of time messing
around with microphones trying to get
the best out of every scene I find this
absolutely mind-blowing it is crazy that
this is recorded on a phone and nothing
else that said you can have the coolest
most unique Innovative feature in the
world but will I actually use this audio
mix stuff probably not that often it's
nice to have the reassurance that at any
time I want I can cuz every iPhone 16 is
recording spatial 360 audio by default
anyway so it's not like you're having to
do or think about anything extra but
yeah I am struggling to see the average
user trolling through their entire
library of videos tweaking whose audio
they want to prioritize in each clip but
different story entirely if you're
buying the iPhone as your main film
making tool for most of our videos I
still prefer the way that Sony camera
looks and the way that a road microphone
sounds but if you looking at the iPhone
16 Pro to be your primary content
creation device then the audio on them
just got very quickly very good but
camera quality should actually be the
biggest upgrade this year so this is an
iPhone 15 Pro Max this is an iPhone 16
Pro Max and that is a particularly
challenging lighting environment we are
shooting against the sun all right hit
me and that looks basically the same
although 16 Pro Max is actually slightly
better at keeping the blue sky looking
blue even through the trees but the main
benefit of the new phone over the old
phone is not actually meant to be
picture quality it's meant to be the
fact that the new phone has a faster
sensor that can capture more information
quickly so can you take photos faster
little known feature of the iPhones by
the way if you tap and hold the shutter
button and drag it to the left hand side
you rapid fire and nope they have shot
the exact same number of photos I will
say though if you just Mash that shutter
button then the new iPhone is definitely
taking more shots and it's freezing up
less but no one does that what actually
would be useful to see though is if you
just wanted to take one high resolution
48 megapixel photo can the new phone
take it faster so I'm going to stand in
front of these phones I'm going to throw
this ball in the air and we're going to
capture at exactly the same time so in
theory whichever phone's photo has the
ball lower in the air has captured the
photo faster 3 2 one oh my God you took
these at the same time yeah it's
actually so quick you don't even see the
shutter that's actually a much bigger
difference than I was expecting it looks
like I've used AI to remove the ball on
the first photo but it's actually just
disappeared out of the frame man I swear
this is like the coolest thing I own but
the main tangible benefit to this faster
sensor according to Apple at least is
meant to be video where the iPhone 15
Pros can shoot a Max of 4K video at 60
frames per second the new phone can do
4K 120 but let's actually investigate
that so this is a water balloon I'm
actually pretty scared this is going to
be explosive
oh God also separate note even though
the screen on the new phone is meant to
be just as bright as that of the old
phone we can't get it to the same level
of brightness it seems to be
consistently slightly dimmer but hey at
least as far as the video quality is
concerned it looks like there is
basically zero compromise even though
we've doubled the frame rate from last
year I have seen 4K 120 on other phones
before but it has never looked this good
and the nice thing about this frame rate
is you can slow that footage down four
times and still get a smooth result the
previous 60 frame per second footage
kind of falls apart here right so what
about how much storage space it takes up
so the clip is 1 minute 25 on both
phones and the storage size is not quite
double but very nearly double so 1
minute 25 is nearly a gab that means
that the entire storage of the iPhone 16
Pro base model so 128 gigs will be taken
up with less than 3 hours of footage on
the camera that is not good also another
thing that I thought was interesting was
let's say I take a video at 12 frames
per second I slow that down to 25% speed
on my phone but then I want to share
that video with someone else you get
options you can either share that video
with no metadata which means that the
other person will just get the video as
you intended it to be or you send with
everything which means that they get all
of this info associated with that file
and they can reverse engineer it
themselves and same thing for
photographic Styles you can take a photo
in one style you can decide later if you
want to shift over to a different style
and then if you share it the other
person can also completely reverse any
tone changes you've made or tweak it in
a different direction all without any
loss to image quality because the
details of the original image are baked
into the data of the shot even when it's
edited however it's actually the
ultrawide cameras that I'm most curious
about the new phone has a 48 megapixel
ultrawide camera which will still
actually shoot 12 megap photos like the
last phone by default so what you need
to do is to tap Heath Max here and once
you've done that once you never need to
do it again it means that from now on
your phone will always shoot the highest
resolution photo that it possibly can
depending on what Zoom magnification
you're using although it's not for free
because everything is going to take up
more storage space and also even though
the main camera as we've seen has this
faster sensor that can capture these
high resolution photos quicker the
ultrawide does not so that takes longer
to capture on this mode that said if the
quality is much better then worthwhile
tradeoff let's see oh yes actually
substantial detail upgrade and actually
if you look at the fabric on my hoodie
you can see quite a bit less noise as
well not to mentioned it's managed to
brighten my dark joggers a little bit so
the high dynamic range is better it's
actually just all around a vastly
upgraded photo and also a more detailed
ultrawide camera should also mean more
detailed macro photos ah okay this is
working a little different to how I
expected so I was expecting that because
this is a 48 megap Ultra wide camera you
would actually be able to take 48 map
macro photos but when you're on the
automatic macro mode of the phone and
you take a shot it's still actually only
taking a 12 megap photo because the
phone is actually cropping into that 4 8
mapel sensor to get as close as possible
that said because you're cropping in
using a higher resolution base the new
phone's macros are still noticeably more
detailed than the old phones I also took
a bunch of night photos to see if I
could spot any Trends and there is
definitely an improvement but it's
definitely not a massive Improvement
right before we get to the real elephant
in the room with this whole Apple
intelligence shenanigan let's talk
charging and by the way if you want to
have basically unlimited power on the go
then this mag safe power bank from ESI
our sponsor is kind of wild it's got a
5,000 Mah capacity it can charge your
phone with a wire but it also supports
the new ch2 wireless charging standard
and that means it will charge your phone
about 30 minutes faster than other power
Banks like it while being 38% Slimmer
and having a kickstand built into the
thing they also have this separate range
of cryoboost chargers which solve the
biggest problem with wireless charging
it generates a ton of heat and so every
cryoboost charger has a cooling Fern oh
I can actually feel the air coming out a
heat dissipation chamber as well as AI
Wizardry to keep temperatures down and
therefore wireless charging fast and
your phone healthy in the long term and
this one charger can handle your watch
your airpods and your phone at the same
time but yeah I use ESR stuff on the
daily because of how much you get for
the money so link below for the full
lineup so these new iPhones are kind of
weird when it comes to charging like I
said the nextg industry standard for
wireless charging is ch2 which allows
phones to charge with 15 wats of power
these phones can actually charge with up
to 25 watts if you splurged on almost
$100 combo of Apple's 25 W mag safe
charger and 30 W brick you need a higher
power brick because some power is lost
when you're wireless charging but then
at the same time Apple's wired charging
speed is so slow compared to the
competition that they are maybe the only
company whose wireless charging is
apparently the same speed as their wired
charging feels like yet another
indicator that apple is really eyeing up
the idea of a completely portless iPhone
one day okay so the final question that
we need to answer is Apple
intelligence is it good does it save the
iPhone 16s from becoming what would
otherwise be a very minor update well
here's where I have a couple of Bones to
pick firstly if you buy an iPhone 16 now
you will not get apple intelligence
straight out the box it's coming in a
software update later although I've set
up a beta so that I can show you now and
secondly it's not exclusive to these FMS
which isn't in itself a problem it's
good when more people can experience
these features but it just makes the
launch event feel a little misleading
cuz Apple spent half of the iPhone 16
section talking about Apple intelligence
but then the fact that almost everything
also works on the iPhone 15 Pro means
that those features have very little to
do with iPhone 16 Hardware anyways
here's my rapid fire thoughts having
spent some time with apple intelligence
now the summaries that it gives you to
your emails are actually a really useful
way to quickly catch up with a full
context of a conversation cleanup is a
really quick Snappy way to remove
distractions from photos but I would
actually say its results seem less good
than they do on my Google pixel I really
like the way that smart replies is
integrated but it only works for
answering specific types of questions
and doesn't exactly do it with much
Pizzazz it's a little flat with how it
responds one of the key categories of
features is writing tools they're
available systemwide so whatever app
you're in if you highlight a bunch of
text and tap writing tools you get these
options and I don't really use any of
these rewriting tools cuz I just for me
tone is so important and something in my
tone always seems to get lost whenever I
try it the key points and summary
features though are really cool at
distilling big chunks of text down to
smaller bites I just I don't use them
myself because I don't quite trust them
like if I'm saying something on a video
to potentially millions of people I need
to double triple check that that
information is Right whereas getting my
information through an ai's
interpretation of a source as opposed to
the source itself is like a fast track
to something getting lost in
communication and that's basically all I
can really test properly with the
current beta I've got high hopes for
Siri once it gets chat GPT integration
but right now it's not doing much more
than the Siri you're used to so as for
what I think to all of these new iPhones
even though it feels like we're on the
precipice of transformative Chang to the
software most of those things aren't
here yet and what was meant to be one of
the biggest Hardware changes this camera
control is I think a bit of a
stretch in both senses of the word that
said while they're not the most exciting
phones to upgrade to if you're on like
an iPhone 12 and you've been holding out
for the next thing they are safe phones
to upgrade to they're fast the Basse
iPhone 16s have good screens and the
pros have great screens this time
although the Basse iPhones do still have
that 60 HZ refresh rate which if you're
used to having better will make them
feel laggy but also battery improvements
are always very appreciated over here
and the battery has been great on all of
these new phones but more on that in my
battery test which is hopefully going
live in a couple of days so see you
there